Alright now, what we want to do here is
create the schema for our MySQL database.
There's a couple different ways we
could skin this cat but what I want to
do is I want to use Hibernate to
generate it for us. So I've gone into the
application-dev.yml file, so this is
only going to run when the dev profile
is active. And what we can do is set up
some properties there. And you can see on
line 12, I've modified the YAML file to
include some properties for JavaX
Persistence so specifically in the
schema generation. So we're going to do a
create source of metadata which is going
to basically do reflection upon our
domains. Our domain entities. And we are
going to do a create, and then the create
target we're going to say I'm going to call
it guru_database_create.sql.
What this is going to do
is generate that file and the project
route for us and we'll get that SQL file
generated. And from that, we'll be able to
run that inside of MySQL and generate
the schema the database tables and
relationships. So let's go ahead and run
that. So what do I want to do is come up
here, edit configurations, I'm going to go
in and set the active profile to dev.
Apply that, say okay, and we'll go ahead
and run that, and we'll see some chatter
there. MySQL is throwing some
warnings there. You saw it go by just as
an FYI, and we're getting an establishing
a SSL connection without the server, so
this is just the security warning. They
did mock down more to the MySQL, so we
could explore some of the actual server
identity so that that's a wild card that
were using. So in case you see that and
wondering what that is, so now we did get
it. It did fail as expected because the
schema isn't there yet. So let's go ahead
and take a look at the script that got
generated. We can see that it was
generated right here in the project
route. If I go in here and take a look,
now we can see that it's got a series of
SQL statements. And the one problem here
is that it's missing the semicolon. So I can't run it as a script, so it's a
kind of annoying little I'm doing an
air quotes feature. So I'm going in and
adding semicolons to this. Wasn't just a
few statements I'd cut this out. So we do
need to terminate these properly with a
semicolon, so we'll run as a script. So
now, I have that there. I can control copy
that and let's jump over to Sequel Pro.
And I will select in the dev database.
Go to the query window. See that
some of my testing results there and now
now I'm going to paste that in, and if I
highlight everything, I can come down
here and say Run Selection. You can see
that it runs it and then it creates our
database tables. Now when I come back
over here and I would start the
application, we can see that it will in
fact start up normally. And we actually
saw see how we got some inserts there.
So this is the bootstrap data that we are
loading up in the database so that net
is still kicking off and we are creating
that that database in the tables and
inserting it. So at this point our dev
profile is up and running. We probably
want to apply this also to the
production database. I'm going to do that
right now. So if you come in select the
production database and run the
selection, you can see that now we've set
up the production database as well with
the same SQL script. So right now our
application, just as a recap, you can see
because I restarted that, what's going to
happen inside of this little create
script know the way it works is it's
going to append to it. So not necessarily
the best feature but for the initial
database creation that's going to be
fine. We don't want to be doing that
all the time. So going forward, I'll
probably comment this out. Should I do
that right now. So I'm going to comment
that out but when you run this yourself
uncomment this from the source and then
you'll be able to run that and generate
the database schema and set up your own
schema. So just a recap, now we have an H2
in memory database
that going to get created each time and here we're
asking Hibernate to give us the creation
SQL. So it's got a couple of rough
edges there because doesn't give us
termination characters and it will
just keep appending to file over and
over. So that's why I'm going to comment
that out, so this little script file
doesn't keep growing growing every time
we restart our dev database. But this is
a very handy way for us to generate that
database schema for our use.